I came here two years ago and I came with
Richard De Aragues who made Closer to the
Edge, you know the Isle Of Man TT Documentary
which was just phenomenal you know as we were
walking through, he was kid of, this god that
had made this wonderful movie so it was a
great kind of entrance into the TT and I think
like a lot of things, the first time you come
here it gets into your blood and all you want
to do is come back, you of all people know
that, but then watching the guys go round
is just, its a brutal race, you know the seniors
today 6 laps 2 hours.
You know a lot of people say to you that when
you go to the TT for the first time, it is
going to blow your mind, its indescribable,
the experience and you go, yeah well sure
whatever but we went down to ago's leap down
here and it's amazing because to get to this
lady's little place, which is a gate with
concrete walls everywhere and then there is
a foot pavement with a curb that is just about
that high and the riders are going bombing
past anyway so you go through people's gardens,
you know you go through five or six gardens,
we walked though and there was a couple eating
their lunch and you sort of go hi, anyway
so you end up in this girl's driveway and
she gives you a pint of lager and you sit
there and we're all chatting about walking
and someone says, ok there coming and you
hear this noise and they come down Bray hill
and around that little right hander which
looks like nothing but when you are going
fast and they come and i swear to god that
where you and I are, this far away from you
and I comes John McGuiness on the back wheel
just screaming past at 170 (274kph), 180 (290kph)
miles per hour that was the first time and
I was in shock absolute shock my hand was
shaking, I couldn't believe what I had just
seen, I just think its Bonkers.
It's great being a spectator here as well
isn't it.
A lot more relaxing.
And if you don't mind me asking, what is it
about motorcycles that you love?
I don't know, it's funny because my dad and
his dad never rode motorbikes and my mums
side, no one ever rode motorbikes and I suppose
I can bring it all the way down to my mate
Tommy Rockford in Ireland where I grew up
and he had a Maaco, I think it was a Maaco
400 and those were the bikes in the day and
I convinced him, I was only tiny and I convinced
him to let me go on the motorbike and I heard
this 2 stroke engine and I was too small to
touch my feet on the ground so he put me on
the bike and stuck it in first gear and I
went around this field a few times and then
fell off and that was it, I was hooked for
life but I think when you travel on a motorcycle,
do long distances on a motorcycle, you go
to other countries, I think it's an amazing
way to use it.
Yo go to Africa on the motorbike and you stop
in a village and you are part of the environment,
so to stop and ask directions, you are in
their environment, so people are immediately
interested in who you are, where you are coming
from, where you are going and all that kind
of stuff and if turn up in a land rover or
a jeep you stop and you have to get out of
your environment into their environment, you
are already one removed, so I think your experience
on a motorcycle is much richer and that it
is harder, when it rains, it rains, when it
is dusty, you really feel it, I just love
it, can't think of anything better.